CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Feedback

See something that should be changed? Want to request a new feature? Open an
[issue on GitHub](https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/issues)!

## Pull requests

You may also submit a change request to this repository directly
[from here](https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/pulls). Contributions are
highly appreciated!

> 💡 **Tip**: To enable formatting on save in VS Code, install the
> `esbenp.prettier-vscode` extension. This is highly recommended as PRs with
> improper format will be blocked from merge until fixed.

## Development environment

The development environment allows contributors to test their changes to the
extension. The local repository source is built and loaded into the Extension
Development Host.

First, ensure that [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) and
[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) are installed.

- Open this repository's root directory as a project in VS Code.

- Run `Tasks: Run Build Task` (Ctrl+Shift+b) to start the extension and webview
  development servers (alternatively run `yarn dev-server` from the terminal).

  > **Warning**: Having a separate (`.vsix`) version of the extension installed
  > may cause all kinds of chaos in your development environment.

- Open the Extension Development Host, a child instance of VS Code with the
  results of the dev servers installed as an extension, with `Start Debugging`
  (f5).

  > **Note**: using the `Run Extension` command when running the debugger will
  > prevent all other extensions from loading into VS Code. This will improve
  > the performance of VS Code but can cause certain DVC commands to fail if the
  > project uses an isolated python environment (see [this warning](#warning)).

- Open a DVC project in the Extension Development Host. VS Code will remember
  the last project opened, so this step only has to be done once.

  > **Note**: We have provided a demo project as part of this repo, but feel
  > free to use any DVC project that you have available.

## The demo project

The [demo project](demo) is provided as a lightweight, convenient testbed to try
the extension out with. It is not an exhaustive showcase of DVC's features, so
testers are encouraged to try other DVC repositories -- especially real-world
cases!

- Install [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) if needed. Run `yarn setup:venv` from the
  root of this repo to set up a virtual Python environment for the demo project
  (in `demo/.env`).

- Optional: Go to the `demo/` directory of (`cd demo`) if you want to use DVC
  from command line (terminal).

- Pull the project data with the extension (**DVC panel** in the _Source Code_
  view) or with `.env/bin/dvc pull` from command line.

- In order to run experiments in the demo project (from the **DVC View**), the
  virtual env should be loaded through the Microsoft [Python extension] (please
  install it), having this in `.vscode/settings.json`:

  ```json
  "python.defaultInterpreterPath": "demo/.env/bin/dvc"
  ```

[python extension]:
  https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python

<a id='warning'></a>

> **Warning** : When using any project that relies on an isolated Python
> environment (`conda`, `venv`, etc.), Microsoft's Python extension is required.
> It's used by this extension to locate and utilize the required environment.

## React component development with Storybook

Start Storybook with `yarn storybook` in either the monorepo root or in the
`webview` project. You can develop the React components this plugin uses without
requiring VS Code as a dev environment.

There are some discrepancies between the Storybook environment and the
environment of a real VS Code extension, custom themes being a big one. Always
make sure to try out changed components in the full dev environment before
merging!

Commit message:

contrib: demo project should be open directly in VSC rel. https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/pull/1928#pullrequestreview-1012834387

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Feedback

See something that should be changed? Want to request a new feature? Open an
[issue on GitHub](https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/issues)!

## Pull requests

You may also submit a change request to this repository directly
[from here](https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/pulls). Contributions are
highly appreciated!

> 💡 **Tip**: To enable formatting on save in VS Code, install the
> `esbenp.prettier-vscode` extension. This is highly recommended as PRs with
> improper format will be blocked from merge until fixed.

## Development environment

The development environment allows contributors to test their changes to the
extension. The local repository source is built and loaded into the Extension
Development Host.

First, ensure that [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) and
[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) are installed.

- Open this repository's root directory as a project in VS Code.

- Run `Tasks: Run Build Task` (Ctrl+Shift+b) to start the extension and webview
  development servers (alternatively run `yarn dev-server` from the terminal).

  > **Warning**: Having a separate (`.vsix`) version of the extension installed
  > may cause all kinds of chaos in your development environment.

- Open the Extension Development Host, a child instance of VS Code with the
  results of the dev servers installed as an extension, with `Start Debugging`
  (f5).

  > **Note**: using the `Run Extension` command when running the debugger will
  > prevent all other extensions from loading into VS Code. This will improve
  > the performance of VS Code but can cause certain DVC commands to fail if the
  > project uses an isolated python environment (see [this warning](#warning)).

- Open a DVC project in the Extension Development Host. VS Code will remember
  the last project opened, so this step only has to be done once.

  > **Note**: We have provided a demo project as part of this repo, but feel
  > free to use any DVC project that you have available.

## The demo project

The [demo project](demo) is provided as a lightweight, convenient testbed to try
the extension out with. It is not an exhaustive showcase of DVC's features, so
testers are encouraged to try other DVC repositories -- especially real-world
cases!

- Install [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) if needed. Run `yarn setup:venv` from the
  root of this repo to set up a virtual Python environment for the demo project
  (in `demo/.env`).

- Important: Open the `demo/` directory of this repo directly in VS Code.

- Pull the project data with the extension (either from the **DVC Tracked**
  panel in the _File Explorer_ or the **DVC panel** in the _Source Code_ view)
  or by running `dvc pull` from a VS Code _Terminal_.

  > Remember to activate the virtual env first (`source .env/bin/activate`) if
  > you're using your system's terminal.

- In order to run experiments in the demo project (from the **DVC View**), the
  virtual env should be loaded through the Microsoft [Python extension] (please
  install it), having this in `.vscode/settings.json`:

  ```json
  "python.defaultInterpreterPath": "demo/.env/bin/dvc"
  ```

[python extension]:
  https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python

<a id='warning'></a>

> **Warning** : When using any project that relies on an isolated Python
> environment (`conda`, `venv`, etc.), Microsoft's Python extension is required.
> It's used by this extension to locate and utilize the required environment.

## React component development with Storybook

Start Storybook with `yarn storybook` in either the monorepo root or in the
`webview` project. You can develop the React components this plugin uses without
requiring VS Code as a dev environment.

There are some discrepancies between the Storybook environment and the
environment of a real VS Code extension, custom themes being a big one. Always
make sure to try out changed components in the full dev environment before
merging!
