README.md, before:

![banner](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/main/extension/resources/banner.png)

# DVC Extension for Visual Studio Code

[![Version](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/version-short/iterative.dvc.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Iterative.dvc)
[![Installs](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/installs/iterative.dvc.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Iterative.dvc)
[![Downloads](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/downloads/iterative.dvc.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Iterative.dvc)
[![Ratings](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/rating-short/iterative.dvc.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Iterative.dvc)

[![Continuous Integration](https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/actions/workflows/continuous-integration.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/actions/workflows/continuous-integration.yml)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/fb243c31ea059c0038b2/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/608b5886f52398018b00264c/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/fb243c31ea059c0038b2/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/608b5886f52398018b00264c/test_coverage)

Run, compare, visualize, and track machine learning experiments right in VS
Code. This extension uses [DVC](https://dvc.org/), an open-source data
versioning and ML experiment management tool. No additional services or
databases are required.

![Extension Overview](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/main/extension/docs/overview.gif)

- **Experiment tracking**: Record training data, parameters, and metrics on top
  of [Git](https://git-scm.com/). Navigate your experiments, compare their
  results, and find the best ML models.
- **Visualization**: Plot performance data in a customizable dashboard including
  one or more overlaid experiments.
- **Live tracking**: Capture and see metrics changing in real time.
- **Reproducibility**: Make sure that anyone can recover or confirm previous
  experiments, and run new experiments based on their results.
- **Data Management**: Handle and version large datasets, files, and models
  effectively right from VS Code.

> **Note**: We are in public beta and welcome early adopter feedback!  
> Feel free to reach out [via Discord] or open [issues in GitHub].
>
> [issues in github]: https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/issues
> [via discord]: https://discord.gg/BGCjJHvDHt

### Why prefer this extension?

- Enjoy the best developer experience with the first experiment tracking
  interface for an IDE.
- No external servers, databases, subscriptions, etc. Data stays fully under
  your control and your existing Git hosting is used to share and collaborate.
- Go beyond a simple metrics dashboard with complete ML experiments that include
  metrics, code, and data. Powered by [DVC experiment
  versioning][dvc experiments].
- Implement [data versioning] on top of your favorite cloud storage, such as
  Amazon S3, Azure Blob Storage, Google Cloud Storage, NFS, etc.

[dvc experiments]:
  https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/experiment-management/experiments-overview
[data versioning]: https://dvc.org/doc/use-cases/versioning-data-and-model-files

---

[Quick start](#quick-start) • [What you get](#what-you-get) •
[Commands](#useful-commands) • [Configuration](#configuration) •
[Roadmap](#developer-roadmap) • [Debugging](#debugging) •
[Contributing](#contributing) • [Telemetry](#data-and-telemetry)

## Quick start

1. [Install DVC](https://dvc.org/doc/install) on your system.
2. Install [this extension] in VS Code.
3. Follow the **Get Started** page that pops up!

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
> 💡 Feel free to try our [example DVC project] first! Opening it [with Github
> Codespaces] will include this extension automatically.

![Initial Get Started page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/main/extension/docs/walkthroughs.png)

[this extension]:
  https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Iterative.dvc
[example dvc project]: https://github.com/iterative/example-get-started
[with github codespaces]:
  https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/getting-started/quickstart#creating-your-codespace

### Learn more about DVC (Data Version Control)

See the DVC documentation to Get Started with [Experiment Versioning] or [Data
Management]. For deeper learning, try our [free course]! [More resources]

[experiment versioning]: https://dvc.org/doc/start/experiments
[data management]: https://dvc.org/doc/start/data-management
[free course]: https://learn.iterative.ai/
[more resources]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/dvc-learn-more.md

## What you get

This extension augments VS Code in the following ways:

- Adds a brand-new new **[DVC View]** (<img
  src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/main/extension/docs/dvc.png"
  alt="DVC logo" height="16"/> icon in the Activity Bar) with panels to
  visualize and manage [DVC Experiments].
- Provides special _Editors_ to manage **[Experiments]** and display **[Plots]**
  in IDE _Tabs_.
- Adds a **[DVC Tracked]** panel to the _Explorer_ view. This shows a tree of
  the data files and directories tracked by DVC, including their state, and
  options to [synchronize] them (from/to remote storage).
- Adds a **[DVC panel]** to the _Source Control_ view to display the [workspace
  status]. You can [restore] or reset project versions (based on the current Git
  `HEAD` commit) as well as manage new and existing data from here.
- Registers several **Commands** in the _[Command Palette]_ (see next section).
- Includes a DVC channel for the _Output_ panel (useful for
  [debugging](#debugging)).

[dvc view]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/view-container.md
[experiments]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/experiments-table.md
[plots]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/plots.md
[command palette]:
  https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface#_command-palette
[dvc tracked]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/dvc-tracked-files.md
[synchronize]: https://dvc.org/doc/start/data-management#storing-and-sharing
[dvc panel]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/dvc-tracked-files.md
[workspace status]:
  https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/status#local-workspace-status
[restore]: https://dvc.org/doc/start/data-management#switching-between-versions

## Useful commands

Open the Command Palette (`F1` or ⇧⌃P on Windows/Linux or ⇧⌘P on macOS) and type
in one of the following commands:

| Command                    | Description                                                                                                                 |
| -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `DVC: Get Started`         | Open the extension's walkthrough. Which details all of the current features and provides links to extra learning resources. |
| `View: Show DVC`           | Open the extension's view container.                                                                                        |
| `DVC: Setup The Workspace` | Activate the extension's workspace setup wizard.                                                                            |
| `DVC: Show Experiments`    | Show an interactive version of DVC's `exp show` [command](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/exp/show).                  |
| `DVC: Show Plots`          | Show an interactive version of DVC's `plots diff` [command](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/plots/diff).              |

Learn more about the extension's [commands].

[commands]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/command-palette.md

## Configuration

These are the VS Code [settings] available for the Extension:

[settings]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings

| **Option**                             | **Description**                                                                                                                                      |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `dvc.dvcPath`                          | Path or shell command to the DVC binary. Required unless Microsoft's [Python extension] is installed and the `dvc` package found in its environment. |
| `dvc.pythonPath`                       | Path to the desired Python interpreter to use with DVC. Required when using a virtual environment.                                                   |
| `dvc.doNotShowWalkthroughAfterInstall` | Do not prompt to show the Get Started page after installing. Useful for pre-configured development environments                                      |
| `dvc.doNotRecommendRedHatExtension`    | Do not prompt to install the Red Hat YAML extension, which helps with DVC YAML schema validation (`dvc.yaml` and `.dvc` files).                      |
| `dvc.doNotShowCliUnavailable`          | Do not warn when the workspace contains a DVC project but the DVC binary is unavailable.                                                             |
| `dvc.doNotShowUnableToFilter`          | Do not warn before disabling auto-apply filters when these would result in too many experiments being selected.                                      |

> **Note** that the `Setup The Workspace` command helps you set up the basic
> ones at the [Workspace level] (saved to `.vscode/setting.json`).

[python extension]:
  https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python
[workspace level]:
  https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings#_workspace-settings

## Developer roadmap

We are working on increasing the quantity and quality of DVC features supported
by this GUI. Remember that you can always use `dvc` commands from the
_Integrated Terminal_!

- **DVC metafile editor** (2022 Q3) Wouldn't it be cool to manage stages,
  parameters, metrics, data and model paths, and other metadata in-place inside
  corresponding [DVC metafiles]? E.g. `dvc.yaml` and `.dvc` files, param or
  metrics files, even `dvc.lock`

- **Parallel coordinates plot** (2022 Q3)  
  DVC Experiment comparison is easier with interactive [parallel coordinate
  plots] (`dvc exp show --pcp` from command-line).

- **Performance improvements** (2022 Q3)  
  Our extension will be faster and more reliable with better internal usage of
  DVC and more efficient data management.

- **ML pipelines** (2022 Q4)  
  The extension examines [`dvc.yaml` files] to identify tracked data and
  changes, but it does not currently provide a graphic interface to write or
  modify stages.

- **Remote execution** (2022 Q4)  
  DVC Experiments can be run in remote environments. We intend to integrate this
  with VS Code's robust [remote development] features.

- **Data registry** (2022 Q4)  
  DVC [data registries] can help you centralize and secure data management
  across all your ML projects. You'll be able to construct and handle them right
  from the IDE.

- **More tools from Iterative.ai** (2023)  
  Expect this extension to become a full-fledged suite for the ecosystem of
  tools from Iterative, such as [CML](https://cml.dev/),
  [MLEM](https://mlem.ai/) + [GTO](https://github.com/iterative/gto) **model
  registry** management, and future surprises!

[dvc metafile]: https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure
[parallel coordinate plots]:
  https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/experiment-management/comparing-experiments#parallel-coordinates-plot
[`dvc.yaml` files]:
  https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files
[remote development]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/remote-overview
[data registries]: https://dvc.org/doc/use-cases/data-registry

## Debugging

### The DVC Extension

Please see the DVC [channel] in the IDE's _Output_ panel to see the underlying
DVC commands being run, as well as their error output. Feel free to share this
with us [via Discord] or use it to report [issues in GitHub].

[channel]:
  https://code.visualstudio.com/api/extension-capabilities/common-capabilities#output-channel

### Your DVC project

Due to the way DVC pipelines run scripts of any language from the command line,
users must debug pipeline scripts (e.g. `train.py`) standalone in whatever way
debuggers are run on the base language - this is standard for debugging DVC
pipelines, and most scripts are capable of running outside of DVC.

## Contributing

See the development and contributing guidelines in
[CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

![GitHub Contributors Image](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=iterative/vscode-dvc)

## Data and telemetry

The DVC Extension for Visual Studio Code collects usage data and sends it to
Azure to help improve our products and services. This extension respects the
`telemetry.enableTelemetry` setting which you can learn more about at
https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/supporting/faq#_how-to-disable-telemetry-reporting.

Commit message:

readme: update More Plots bullet in Roadmap per https://iterative-squad.monday.com/boards/2546691996/pulses/2574177529

README.md, after:

![banner](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/main/extension/resources/banner.png)

# DVC Extension for Visual Studio Code

[![Version](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/version-short/iterative.dvc.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Iterative.dvc)
[![Installs](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/installs/iterative.dvc.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Iterative.dvc)
[![Downloads](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/downloads/iterative.dvc.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Iterative.dvc)
[![Ratings](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/rating-short/iterative.dvc.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Iterative.dvc)

[![Continuous Integration](https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/actions/workflows/continuous-integration.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/actions/workflows/continuous-integration.yml)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/fb243c31ea059c0038b2/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/608b5886f52398018b00264c/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/fb243c31ea059c0038b2/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/608b5886f52398018b00264c/test_coverage)

Run, compare, visualize, and track machine learning experiments right in VS
Code. This extension uses [DVC](https://dvc.org/), an open-source data
versioning and ML experiment management tool. No additional services or
databases are required.

![Extension Overview](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/main/extension/docs/overview.gif)

- **Experiment tracking**: Record training data, parameters, and metrics on top
  of [Git](https://git-scm.com/). Navigate your experiments, compare their
  results, and find the best ML models.
- **Visualization**: Plot performance data in a customizable dashboard including
  one or more overlaid experiments.
- **Live tracking**: Capture and see metrics changing in real time.
- **Reproducibility**: Make sure that anyone can recover or confirm previous
  experiments, and run new experiments based on their results.
- **Data Management**: Handle and version large datasets, files, and models
  effectively right from VS Code.

> **Note**: We are in public beta and welcome early adopter feedback!  
> Feel free to reach out [via Discord] or open [issues in GitHub].
>
> [issues in github]: https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/issues
> [via discord]: https://discord.gg/BGCjJHvDHt

### Why prefer this extension?

- Enjoy the best developer experience with the first experiment tracking
  interface for an IDE.
- No external servers, databases, subscriptions, etc. Data stays fully under
  your control and your existing Git hosting is used to share and collaborate.
- Go beyond a simple metrics dashboard with complete ML experiments that include
  metrics, code, and data. Powered by [DVC experiment
  versioning][dvc experiments].
- Implement [data versioning] on top of your favorite cloud storage, such as
  Amazon S3, Azure Blob Storage, Google Cloud Storage, NFS, etc.

[dvc experiments]:
  https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/experiment-management/experiments-overview
[data versioning]: https://dvc.org/doc/use-cases/versioning-data-and-model-files

---

[Quick start](#quick-start) • [What you get](#what-you-get) •
[Commands](#useful-commands) • [Configuration](#configuration) •
[Roadmap](#developer-roadmap) • [Debugging](#debugging) •
[Contributing](#contributing) • [Telemetry](#data-and-telemetry)

## Quick start

1. [Install DVC](https://dvc.org/doc/install) on your system.
2. Install [this extension] in VS Code.
3. Follow the **Get Started** page that pops up!

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
> 💡 Feel free to try our [example DVC project] first! Opening it [with Github
> Codespaces] will include this extension automatically.

![Initial Get Started page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/main/extension/docs/walkthroughs.png)

[this extension]:
  https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Iterative.dvc
[example dvc project]: https://github.com/iterative/example-get-started
[with github codespaces]:
  https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/getting-started/quickstart#creating-your-codespace

### Learn more about DVC (Data Version Control)

See the DVC documentation to Get Started with [Experiment Versioning] or [Data
Management]. For deeper learning, try our [free course]! [More resources]

[experiment versioning]: https://dvc.org/doc/start/experiments
[data management]: https://dvc.org/doc/start/data-management
[free course]: https://learn.iterative.ai/
[more resources]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/dvc-learn-more.md

## What you get

This extension augments VS Code in the following ways:

- Adds a brand-new new **[DVC View]** (<img
  src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/main/extension/docs/dvc.png"
  alt="DVC logo" height="16"/> icon in the Activity Bar) with panels to
  visualize and manage [DVC Experiments].
- Provides special _Editors_ to manage **[Experiments]** and display **[Plots]**
  in IDE _Tabs_.
- Adds a **[DVC Tracked]** panel to the _Explorer_ view. This shows a tree of
  the data files and directories tracked by DVC, including their state, and
  options to [synchronize] them (from/to remote storage).
- Adds a **[DVC panel]** to the _Source Control_ view to display the [workspace
  status]. You can [restore] or reset project versions (based on the current Git
  `HEAD` commit) as well as manage new and existing data from here.
- Registers several **Commands** in the _[Command Palette]_ (see next section).
- Includes a DVC channel for the _Output_ panel (useful for
  [debugging](#debugging)).

[dvc view]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/view-container.md
[experiments]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/experiments-table.md
[plots]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/plots.md
[command palette]:
  https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface#_command-palette
[dvc tracked]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/dvc-tracked-files.md
[synchronize]: https://dvc.org/doc/start/data-management#storing-and-sharing
[dvc panel]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/dvc-tracked-files.md
[workspace status]:
  https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/status#local-workspace-status
[restore]: https://dvc.org/doc/start/data-management#switching-between-versions

## Useful commands

Open the Command Palette (`F1` or ⇧⌃P on Windows/Linux or ⇧⌘P on macOS) and type
in one of the following commands:

| Command                    | Description                                                                                                                 |
| -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `DVC: Get Started`         | Open the extension's walkthrough. Which details all of the current features and provides links to extra learning resources. |
| `View: Show DVC`           | Open the extension's view container.                                                                                        |
| `DVC: Setup The Workspace` | Activate the extension's workspace setup wizard.                                                                            |
| `DVC: Show Experiments`    | Show an interactive version of DVC's `exp show` [command](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/exp/show).                  |
| `DVC: Show Plots`          | Show an interactive version of DVC's `plots diff` [command](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/plots/diff).              |

Learn more about the extension's [commands].

[commands]:
  https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/extension/resources/walkthrough/command-palette.md

## Configuration

These are the VS Code [settings] available for the Extension:

[settings]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings

| **Option**                             | **Description**                                                                                                                                      |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `dvc.dvcPath`                          | Path or shell command to the DVC binary. Required unless Microsoft's [Python extension] is installed and the `dvc` package found in its environment. |
| `dvc.pythonPath`                       | Path to the desired Python interpreter to use with DVC. Required when using a virtual environment.                                                   |
| `dvc.doNotShowWalkthroughAfterInstall` | Do not prompt to show the Get Started page after installing. Useful for pre-configured development environments                                      |
| `dvc.doNotRecommendRedHatExtension`    | Do not prompt to install the Red Hat YAML extension, which helps with DVC YAML schema validation (`dvc.yaml` and `.dvc` files).                      |
| `dvc.doNotShowCliUnavailable`          | Do not warn when the workspace contains a DVC project but the DVC binary is unavailable.                                                             |
| `dvc.doNotShowUnableToFilter`          | Do not warn before disabling auto-apply filters when these would result in too many experiments being selected.                                      |

> **Note** that the `Setup The Workspace` command helps you set up the basic
> ones at the [Workspace level] (saved to `.vscode/setting.json`).

[python extension]:
  https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python
[workspace level]:
  https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/settings#_workspace-settings

## Developer roadmap

We are working on increasing the quantity and quality of DVC features supported
by this GUI. Remember that you can always use `dvc` commands from the
_Integrated Terminal_!

- **DVC metafile editor** (2022 Q3) Wouldn't it be cool to manage stages,
  parameters, metrics, data and model paths, and other metadata in-place inside
  corresponding [DVC metafiles]? E.g. `dvc.yaml` and `.dvc` files, param or
  metrics files, even `dvc.lock`

- **More and better plots!** (2022 Q3)  
  DVC Experiment comparison is easier with interactive [parallel coordinate
  plots], which can be generated from command line with `dvc exp show --pcp`. We
  plan to incorporate that and brand new IDE-exclusive plots! (TBD)

- **Performance improvements** (2022 Q3)  
  Our extension will be faster and more reliable with better internal usage of
  DVC and more efficient data management.

- **ML pipelines** (2022 Q4)  
  The extension examines [`dvc.yaml` files] to identify tracked data and
  changes, but it does not currently provide a graphic interface to write or
  modify stages.

- **Remote execution** (2022 Q4)  
  DVC Experiments can be run in remote environments. We intend to integrate this
  with VS Code's robust [remote development] features.

- **Data registry** (2022 Q4)  
  DVC [data registries] can help you centralize and secure data management
  across all your ML projects. You'll be able to construct and handle them right
  from the IDE.

- **More tools from Iterative.ai** (2023)  
  Expect this extension to become a full-fledged suite for the ecosystem of
  tools from Iterative, such as [CML](https://cml.dev/),
  [MLEM](https://mlem.ai/) + [GTO](https://github.com/iterative/gto) **model
  registry** management, and future surprises! (TBD)

[dvc metafile]: https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure
[parallel coordinate plots]:
  https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/experiment-management/comparing-experiments#parallel-coordinates-plot
[`dvc.yaml` files]:
  https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/project-structure/pipelines-files
[remote development]: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/remote-overview
[data registries]: https://dvc.org/doc/use-cases/data-registry

## Debugging

### The DVC Extension

Please see the DVC [channel] in the IDE's _Output_ panel to see the underlying
DVC commands being run, as well as their error output. Feel free to share this
with us [via Discord] or use it to report [issues in GitHub].

[channel]:
  https://code.visualstudio.com/api/extension-capabilities/common-capabilities#output-channel

### Your DVC project

Due to the way DVC pipelines run scripts of any language from the command line,
users must debug pipeline scripts (e.g. `train.py`) standalone in whatever way
debuggers are run on the base language - this is standard for debugging DVC
pipelines, and most scripts are capable of running outside of DVC.

## Contributing

See the development and contributing guidelines in
[CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/iterative/vscode-dvc/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

![GitHub Contributors Image](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=iterative/vscode-dvc)

## Data and telemetry

The DVC Extension for Visual Studio Code collects usage data and sends it to
Azure to help improve our products and services. This extension respects the
`telemetry.enableTelemetry` setting which you can learn more about at
https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/supporting/faq#_how-to-disable-telemetry-reporting.
